Uh, before this doesn't count for the podcast, Chris, just all this, just cut all this out.
I whenever you say that he just does and cut it out.
That's true.
Have you not learned?
I know.
It's like it's fine.
It's like a signal from to include it.
But this is different.
It's not like I want you to cut it out because it's sensitive.
It's like, it's going to be super boring.
Let's just not put this at the beginning of our podcast because it's just, it's been a week off.
And like, this is not entertaining.
But I just had to set up everything to do this.
I've not, I'm not prepared to record our podcast on my stream.
And I did it first try.
I just wanted you to be proud of me for something because you're not proud of me for a lot of other things.
I just nailed it.
First try.
Did you?
There's no audio.
Are you serious?
Double dax.
Oh, geez.
Hang on.
Okay.
Let's.
[MUSIC]
Your haircut does, does look good.
Hey, thanks.
I appreciate compliments from you because I don't always get them.
No, it looks really good.
It looks way better than whatever the hell was going on yesterday.
Alex, I intentionally like went out of my way to try to be way more personable with my
haircutter, my barber, to the point that he probably thought something was wrong with me.
Like what's going on with this guy?
Because I also had him change my haircut.
Like I was the first time in a year.
I've never tried something new.
And I was like, what do the zero fade?
And he's probably thinking like I just got divorced.
I just, something major just happened.
My dog died or something because I'm like talking to him all chatty and I'm like,
changing my head completely.
It didn't go the best.
He did not seem to want to talk.
I think it's his side.
I think that's not my fault.
I think he actually doesn't want to talk to me.
For whatever reason.
But then I start talking about movies and he kind of perked up.
That's just my little update on haircut talking.
I'm done.
And how did you feel out the word?
Were you, were you glad that you, you tried?
I mean, the whole time it was very meta in my brain.
I was just thinking about how Dax is going to be so proud of me when I tell him about this.
Like that's all I could think about.
So maybe that was, maybe that's why I didn't want to talk to me.
You could tell that wasn't really paying attention.
I was just like trying to get points for being social.
So I had an interesting experience as well at the barber.
So I was in Maine this past week.
I was like, yeah, you were.
I was in New Jersey in New York.
We'll get to it.
And in Maine, jerk.
And I was like, one morning, I was like, oh, let me just go get my head.
Like a head trim, get my head shaved.
Yeah.
So I just go to the most random place.
Just like the most random local, like super cheap place.
And the person that weighs me over because they have a slot open is
an extremely, extremely old man.
Like I wouldn't be surprised if he was in his like 80s.
Like he was, he was quite old.
What?
Okay.
His hands.
No, we're shaking the whole time.
But it was fine because he was just using the electric trimmer.
And so he did that.
Yeah, he didn't have a straight blade.
He wasn't like razoring your head.
At first, he didn't have a straight blade.
Oh, no.
He got up and then he finished.
And then he was like, and then he pulls out the straight blade to do stuff.
And he's like, and they're shaking.
And like, I was extremely, extremely nervous the whole time.
But it was fine.
I think it's weird.
Like his hands got stable when he used it.
Stable ish.
Once the adrenaline got flowing, once he gets into the zone,
he's in a slow state.
And he's like, I got this now.
But it wasn't a good result.
Like the head texture, my head felt super weird.
And it made me really appreciate the people I go to.
I don't go to a barber all the time.
But when I do go, they spend time just getting every little strand of hair out.
And then when I'm done, I have a completely smooth head.
And if I'm super rich one day, I think the one unique thing I'm going to spend my money on
is I want someone to come to my house every morning and shave my head.
Oh, fresh cut every day.
Yeah, so we're going to have a smooth head every single day.
That'd be actually a pretty great routine.
Like, I bet that'd be very therapeutic.
You just have like a routine where you step there and you think about whatever that morning.
What's going on for the day and you're getting your head shaved?
No, I have to talk to the person.
We as we as well.
Oh, we have to talk to the person.
That's right.
If you hire them to come to your house, you really have to talk to them at that point.
I feel like at that point, there's kind of an established pecking order here.
Like, I hired you to come to my house and shave my head.
I'm not going to talk to.
That's just too much.
I think that's kind of the relationship where you want to have that person in your life for
a long time.
So I think it's actually the opposite if anything.
It's not as anonymous.
I could see that.
But I always think about how like the rock, when does he ever have hair that's like kind
of growing?
It's never a good point.
His head is perfectly smooth every single day.
I don't know how because it looks very, very, very, very good.
And maybe he does get it done every single day.
I kind of wanted to just like laser roll the hair off my head because it's like kind of,
the half state is pointless.
So it's that a thing.
Can you actually go with like laser away hair that'll never grow back?
Like if I just want to stop, if I just want to lock in this facial hair, can I just laser
all around it and it'll just stay growing in this spot?
I don't ever have to shave my cheeks again.
Is that a thing?
That sounded so weird.
Shave my cheeks, my face cheeks.
I think so.
It is like a, it is a painful thing.
And it's, it's like semi-permanent, like it'll eventually like after years and years.
So that's probably maybe worth it, but I think lasering your face area.
Yeah.
This one's going to say, how does it kill the hair follicle and not like damage your skin in some way?
I think it does slightly damage your skin because when you, when you get, when you get it done,
you can't go out in the sun for a little bit.
Ooh.
So I think your skin is damaged.
Speaking of damaged skin, did you see that video that was floating around?
Like explaining how a tattoo works?
No, but I'm very curious now.
You got me.
It is the craziest thing ever.
It's like the most, it's so much more violent of a process than, than you would think.
Yeah, I'm just realizing, I just know it's a needle and it like, it's like, is it like a sewing machine?
That's all I know about tattoos.
I've never really understood how the ink stays there, how it like, I don't, I don't understand.
So here's what's wild.
You think of it as entirely a physical process where like they just shove ink under your skin.
Yep.
And it just stays there, but it actually only works because of how our immune system works.
And it's really, really wild.
So when the immune system.
I would not have guessed it.
The needle goes, goes in and like super fast, right?
It's like, I think like four times a second or something.
It's like basically blasting holes into your skin all the way to, like the layer right below it.
And suppositing these giant things of these giant like molecules of ink.
Yep.
And your body sees that as like a traumatic event.
So it sends a bunch of white blood cells to try to like, you know,
get rid of all the bacteria and stuff that was pulled in.
In that process, it keeps, it tries to figure out what to do with ink.
And it, it hits a point where it gives up because it doesn't know how to like defeat the ink.
Yeah.
And it basically like surrounds it and locks the ink in place to prevent it from going
into the rest of your body.
Do your body identifies it as like a threat?
And your white blood cells like sacrifice themselves to keep it trapped there.
And that's why it like, it stays there and it stays still.
And over time, obviously, some of it breaks apart and like, you know,
gets flushed through your body.
And that's why it gets a little bit blurry over time.
Yeah.
But it's a little bit.
If it wasn't for your immune system, they would just kind of like dissipate through your body.
Like, really?
I never considered that.
Like why the ink stays in the spot that it stays.
I guess I probably just thought it was like dying the cells.
Like just coloring the cells or something.
But I guess your cells are constantly replacing themselves.
So that doesn't make sense.
Well, the skin layer is like, it's constantly like rising.
Like it pushes dead things to the top.
And then I like, you know, you're shedding like millions of them every minute or something crazy
like that.
So it needs to go below the skin and then something needs to kind of hold it in place.
That is wild.
So your skin is just translucent enough to kind of see the ink.
Yeah.
Through the, oh, yeah, you have a tattoo.
We've talked about this.
Yeah, right here.
Yeah.
So that's now you know how it all works.
Does it make you feel differently about your tattoo?
Yeah.
Because the video really like dramatize dramatize it.
The same thought like, wait, dramatize it.
It's just like this horrible moment for your body and all these like my blood cells
sacrifice themselves so that you can you can have a tattoo.
And now I understand why when people get big tattoos,
they get really tired or almost like sick for a couple of days.
Mm hmm.
Because you're making it work in the response.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Now I definitely don't want a tattoo.
I was kind of on the fence.
I was kind of on the fence now just knowing that like my immune system gets involved.
Nah.
I'm good.
You got your new haircut.
I feel like a tattoo would go.
Honestly, if you got the exact same tattoo as me with that haircut,
I think you would look great.
So that would be kind of cool actually.
That'd be like locking in our friendship that is now dead.
Is our friendship dead?
Could we go over that a little bit?
We haven't just been on the two of us in like four or five weeks.
It's been a while.
I feel like we've lost that dialogue.
We used to talk a lot.
And then you travel constantly.
And I'm a little bothered and then you watch me stream and you're bothered.
So do we just not like each other anymore?
Is that the deal?
Are we just over each other?
I think that's what happened.
It's not funny for a couple of weeks.
And we realized it's actually better that we don't talk at all.
That will be realized.
Oh, geez.
That was the conclusion you came to.
Okay.
Feels good.
No, I'm just kidding.
Why were you so frustrated?
For context, the podcast listeners are not necessarily stream watchers.
You joined my stream this morning.
I've been streaming again in the last couple of weeks.
And sometimes you watch me and you just can't handle it.
You're like, this guy's too dumb.
I can't watch this guy program for another second.
And you just start screaming in chat with all caps.
What was this specifically this morning?
Because like most times I know like, yeah,
that part of it was refreshing.
This morning, I don't know.
I didn't figure out exactly what you're frustrated by.
It was just like any other time.
Like I see what the problem is.
And I'm having a hard time communicating it.
And it's like then there's like the lag.
Like I say something.
And you're looking at something else.
You're not looking at chat.
Takes a while from the end of the time you come look at it.
Like the context is totally lost.
And you're just like, what the hell is he talking about?
Yeah.
He's just a lot of frustrating back and forth.
And I was in the shower when I was watching.
Which is totally normal to watch Twitch.
I'm not even going to try to explain that.
Yeah, that's fine.
And my phone was getting wet.
So I couldn't even type properly.
So half of those messages of me screaming
were just me trying to actually just type.
And it was just the water was.
And I got so annoyed that I got out of the shower
and I went to my computer to type it out.
You said you had a theory about why I'm so slow on Twitch.
Is that real or were you just messing with me?
I've like made like this kind of implicit assumption
where I'm like, because I know you get a lot of stuff done.
You definitely get a lot of stuff done.
And I would say like an above average amount of stuff.
You get together.
But you would never know that watching your stream.
I've heard this.
So I'm like, Adam must be like really good off stream
like by comparison because he has to make up for it.
Yeah, once it does make up for a little time in.
And yeah, I just like get as much done as you do.
But so now it's taking another day like, okay,
like what is actually going wrong?
Because it's not of course everyone on Twitch
like you start reading chat and you get distracted.
It's like your time thing.
But I swear when you're on Twitch,
there's this other thing that happens
where you just like zoom in way too far.
Just like the next step.
Uh-huh.
And I'm like, there's, and then so like,
sometimes you're doing things and you're like,
not like why am I doing this?
Yeah.
It's like part of your brain turns off
and you just like do whatever chat does.
Really? It is. There's something,
because I've tried when I came back to streaming,
I knew I have to actually be productive
or I won't keep doing it.
Like at some point I realized like,
I'm not really getting anything done.
I got to stop streaming.
And I want to stream.
It's so fun to have friends on the internet
that you interact with.
You know the fun parts of streaming.
Like they're very fun.
So I want to keep it like as this long-term thing
that I do just a little bit every day,
maybe just a little bit every week, whatever.
So I've consciously came into it saying,
I'm going to stay focused and I'm going to actually get stuff done.
And I feel like I've done a much better job
of actually staying focused on my screen
and actually in my text editor and not just talking.
I've done that part, but there's something different.
And my theory was that like,
you know how you're different around certain people?
You just have like a certain, not like intentionally,
but you're just you're a different person around every individual.
Like you have a different personality that comes out.
I feel like something about the Twitch chat community,
like my friends on Twitch.
And Twitter, I mean they're on Twitter too.
But I feel like when I'm around that group,
I'm just a totally different person.
And I can't quite describe it,
but that person is not very good at programming.
We're not very good at like, it's not programming.
It's not very good at like you're saying,
like seeing the whole picture and just like being effective
and getting things done on a schedule.
It's like I do, I obsess over stupid little things
that I don't need to spend time on.
And then I spend 45 minutes on it.
And like, I wouldn't do that just sitting here alone.
And I don't know exactly what it is.
It's not like I think it's good content.
It's not like I'm like,
I'm going to wow them with me staring at this padding issue
for 45 minutes.
I don't actually think that's entertaining.
But for some reason,
I feel like I'm that different person.
I don't know, I got to figure it out.
Or just stop streaming.
Yeah, I actually, I actually don't think,
I mean, the focusing on details part,
like I'm like, I think that's fine.
Like I don't think that's, that's weird.
I think that's.
Oh, and I'm super into details.
Like when I'm off stream,
I mean, I very much care to get all the little things right.
I just can't figure out what it is about being on Twitch
that I think I focus, I do focus on the wrong things.
I don't know, I don't like it.
Yeah, I mean, I kind of get it too,
because I think when you work normally you have like,
I don't know, I feel like you have like this larger,
not you just people in general, like yourself too.
Have this larger sense of what you're trying to do.
And maybe on Twitch,
it kind of feels like you're trying to figure out
the next thing you're going to do.
I don't know, it just feels like there's like a larger context missing.
Yeah, there's definitely something missing.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Twitch chat says maybe I'm anxious or nervous.
I don't think so.
I mean, I don't think I get nervous being on Twitch.
It's not that it feels totally random to me.
It feels like you're just behaving in this completely random other way.
Yeah, it's just a different, I just feel like a different person.
But I feel that way like I've had this thought,
this kind of branches out into other stuff.
I've had this thought in terms of like,
if I'm just talking with you,
I feel like this is as much me just myself as I can be.
Like I'm like you or with you, like I am with Casey.
Like my closest friends, I feel like I'm just me.
But like react Miami in like a small group of like four or five people
where it's you plus other people, I'm just not me.
And I'm a different person.
And then I start feeling like I have this different identity.
Do you feel that way?
Do you feel like I have different identities?
Like completely different personhoods depending on who's around.
Yeah, I definitely have that, but it's not,
that's not like what trips it.
I think for me, and this is like a very normal thing.
It's when I meet someone new,
it takes me like a couple of weeks of like meeting them a few times
for like my actual personality to come out.
And more and more lately, I'm like,
that first personality is so fake.
Or like it just like, I hate it.
I hate it so much.
And I don't know how it just comes out every single time.
And Chan had this funny tweet.
I don't think he saw it because you were talking about the same
dynamic in a different way where he was like,
a trick for that is when you meet someone new,
just try to figure out who they remind you most of
and just pretend that that's who they are.
I'm like, that actually I remember this tweet.
Yeah.
I'm like, that seems like that could help me.
That's my exact problem.
Like I need to, I just wish I could pretend
whatever initial layer I need to get over.
Like I wish that would happen right away.
Yeah, I remember that tweet because I responded
because I don't do it intentionally, but certain people,
and I don't do it with everybody.
Maybe if I did it with everybody, it would help me.
Like if I were intentional about it.
But there are certain people that remind me so much
of somebody that I just am that person.
Like I go back.
So for instance, prime is my college friend, Rob,
like to a tee.
I mean, their voice is the same.
Like literally like they're the same in my mind,
they're the same person.
So when I'm around prime, I find myself,
it's like that's Rob.
And I feel like I'm thinking how I was with Rob
in college and that's just not, that's not prime.
It's a different human being.
He doesn't have any of that context.
So then I like try and not be that, and it's just even harder.
There's people like that.
They just remind me so much of somebody
that was, I was close to it some time.
And then I just become the person that I was.
It's effective in like getting over that initial hurdle
until it's very distracting.
And you're constantly thinking about it when you're around that person.
Yeah, I think you're thinking with groups.
You feel like your personality is different,
or do you just feel like you are quieter?
Like that's what I feel like I just lose my personality.
Yeah, I just don't have one.
I become completely a shell of a person.
I just kind of walk around and stare.
Is that autism?
What is that?
I blame everything on autism.
I will say that if you're specifically talking
about hanging out, react Miami.
So this is always a thing, right?
When groups of people hang out,
sometimes it's hard to like get a word in.
Yeah, especially if like the dynamic is new.
Yeah.
And on top of that, we're like,
we're hanging out with professional talkers, you know?
That's true.
So yeah, our group is kind of good at talking.
So true.
Yeah, it just becomes like,
I think it's extra more in that direction.
So you've got to be really like,
you've got to be like really practiced,
or really wanting to say something to like say a lot
in those contexts, is that what you're saying?
Yeah, I mean, I felt this way when I first started at meet Liz's friend,
like Liz's friends from high school, like they're all married,
but even their husbands have been part of that group for a very long time.
Yeah.
And when I first started hanging out with them,
I was super quiet because there's a rhythm to things.
And I couldn't like, I couldn't think fast enough.
I couldn't, you know, whatever.
But over time, it got a lot better just through practice.
Liz had this funny thing.
So the reason I was in Maine is Alan is getting married.
So his wife was having,
or his friend says having a bachelorette type of thing.
So Liz went and they spent basically like four days in a cabin in Maine,
and me and Alan hung out as a apartment.
And Liz came back and she's like, wow, I feel smarter,
because I just spent four days like socializing for 12 hours a day.
And my brain just feels faster.
I feel less slow.
And yeah, she's like, I think after COVID,
all that stuff, that part of her life just reduced a lot.
And she thinks it's literally making her dumber,
because it's like a part of your brain.
You need to exercise.
And yeah, she just felt like, like just, I don't know,
she just felt, I can tell, like from her energy,
like she just literally seemed smarter just from talking.
- Yeah, just being in that situation,
having to interact with other people.
- Yeah.
I definitely feel slow if I do that for a while.
- It feels to me like, I think I'm having thoughts
in those moments in those settings,
where it's like I'm trying to figure out what I bring to the converse,
to the, what I bring to the conversation,
what I bring to the group, what do I have to offer here?
Because I don't really, like,
things don't just pop in my head that I want to say out loud.
Like, it's like I lose that ability.
And I guess when I'm with people I'm really close with,
things pop in my head constantly.
But when I'm in a group like that,
even a small group of people I would call friends,
it feels like I don't have things popping in my head.
It's like, instead, I just think,
what would I even want to talk about right now?
- Yeah, exactly.
I tell like, I think that is normal.
It feels like you're watching TV all of a sudden.
You're just there to like observe.
- Yes, yes.
That's a perfect description.
Yeah.
- But I think it's just practice.
- It's just practice.
Yeah.
I think I'm more talkative when I'm really,
I think I'm really confident in where I belong,
or my place in a setting.
Like, if I go back to school,
or like, any groups where I'm established,
and it's not like I can only have one friend
where I talk one-on-one.
I know I can be in groups and be myself,
but I think it's like,
I had to establish some kind of a bearing.
Like, this is how I fit into this.
Or maybe it's just repetition.
I've just been around them enough.
And now, it's totally natural.
I'm describing like, very normal basic stuff.
I'm just like, socialization 101.
And I'm actually like, I have insights here,
but I'm learning things.
I'm 38, I'm learning.
- Those are insightful, what it's not is autism.
- Okay, it's not autism.
I gotta stop saying everything is just autism.
I'm like, man, I'm bad at everything.
I'm probably just autistic.
I actually think autism is better than being normal.
So I don't want to shame anyone who's autistic.
I'm just saying.
- Yeah, you're claiming it.
- It's like, you're not kidding.
- I'm claiming, yeah.
I'm saying, I want to be autistic.
I hope I'm autistic.
- Social stuff is hard.
- It's so hard.
Let's talk about a ton of stuff that's happened,
I guess, since we last talked.
So we can pick our, pick up the litter.
But I want to talk about this whole open source thing.
- The node 0.4.
It's so fascinating just to get this little window
into a world that has existed for years
in terms of like established open source maintainer,
maintains lots of projects.
Everyone in open source is interacted with this person
and has opinions.
But then something pops up that kind of like
takes over the zeitgeist on Twitter
and everybody gets a peek all at once
into this dynamic that's existed for a while.
Do you have thoughts on the whole situation?
Had you bumped into this individual?
Did you have already, okay.
- No, okay, so just for context,
there was a GitHub issue.
There was actually two good issues,
I think, what I saw, where this person who is like,
well, well, known, I guess in the community
was adding a bunch of packages as dependencies
that were quite large, very, very large,
complicated packages depended on a bunch of other packages
to a project to make it support node 0.4,
which I don't even know how old that is, like.
- I have no idea.
- 10 years old, I gotta know.
That's forever ago, 0.4.
Everyone's like, why are you doing this?
Literally, nobody has asked for this at all.
And he kept explaining his reasons why,
like, backwards compatibility, blah, blah, blah.
What cracked me up was Rich Harris was in there a bunch
'cause it was a project that Spelt uses.
And he was just like, what are you talking about?
Like, why are you doing this?
And I was very, very confused.
And I just found it really funny
'cause, you know, Rich Harris' time is worth a lot
in terms of what he could be doing.
Looking at that, he probably spent, like,
at least two hours, like, probably in the way
we're applying to this.
And I'm like, this is so funny
that someone could just monopolize his time like that.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, and then it got posted on Twitter,
and then a bunch of people started piling on,
and then the threads started being locked.
And I think the interesting bit was,
there was some accusation of something
because he seemed to be basically just for very little reason,
just taking default things and wrapping them
in his own packages and then using that as a dependency.
And people pointed out that he was part of some company tied lift
that pays OSS developers to follow certain security practices
and based off of how much your packages used you get paid more.
So people were like, is that because this makes no sense?
Is that what's motivating you?
So yeah, that situation was pretty funny.
- I have so many different thoughts around the whole thing.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- They're just in rapid-fire random order.
First of all, why have 0.4?
If you're gonna go back and you're gonna be all purist about it,
why not 0.1?
I don't know, what was the first node version?
Like, why'd you stop?
What was the change between 0.4 and 0.1
that you were like, can't support that?
Those guys, they're in the cold.
But 0.4, you're good.
That's just random to me that it's 0.4.
Yeah, the other thing, I guess like the incentive thing,
it's like clearly, I mean,
I don't understand where the money's coming from
for this tied lift thing.
I don't understand that whole business model.
I don't get it.
But just assuming--
- Just assuming it makes no sense.
- It makes no sense.
But you get money based on packaged downloads.
And like, whether it's not like,
I don't like trying to like, guess people's motives,
because you just can't.
You can't know why someone's motivated to do something.
But you're clearly incentivized.
Whether it's your motive or not,
you are incentivized to get more packaged downloads.
So it is kind of fishy on that angle.
But the biggest thing for me is just like,
if the whole world, like all of the Twitter mob is angry at you,
there's probably something to that.
It's not like, just Twitter being Twitter.
Like, if everybody in GitHub and everybody on Twitter
disagrees with you, I don't know, maybe you're wrong.
And like, also, why are we all using these packages?
Why can't we just like, not use them, fork them,
use something else?
Like, I don't understand how this person has maintained
so much power within the open source community,
maintaining 400 packages.
Why do people keep handling this person?
Maintainership.
When he's already got 400 packages under his name.
Like, maybe, maybe not.
Maybe he finds someone else.
- Yeah.
- I don't understand that dynamic.
- Yeah, it's weird.
But I have seen this type of thing before.
To me, it's almost like hoarding.
Like, I feel like there's a weird obsession
to doing these things of just like hoarding these
very low value packages, to be honest.
Like, it's just a, there's like a history there,
which is why the package exists.
And like, if you're building something new,
you would never use any of this stuff.
So it's just like this historical kind of cluster
of stuff, like 400 packages is what,
I mean, I don't know what the actual number is,
but 400, if it's 400 packages,
that's like, I don't use anywhere near that many
across all my projects, like nowhere near that many.
And I probably even use a single one of those packages either.
- Yeah.
- So, yeah, it's a bizarre thing.
- Well, directly, or do you think you use them?
Does SST depend on any of them transitively or otherwise?
Have you done the check thing?
There's like a check.
- Yeah, I know.
But I don't think, I don't think we do,
'cause we, I mean, maybe not through pulling me.
We haven't checked, well,
'cause pulling me might bring in a bunch of stuff.
- Do you remember what the thing was?
- Volda, it was like Voldemort.
(both laughing)
- See if it's packed.
Voldemort open-sourced light.
- What was even crazier is,
somebody in there linked some kind of solution
to this specific person?
I don't know if you saw that.
- No.
- So we built like a project that just swaps
all of his stuff out.
- Oh, really?
- And it wasn't something, so I was like,
oh, did they just build this and react?
No, they built this a while ago,
'cause I guess they, this has been a problem for a while.
- This is like a whole subculture
of people who know about this guy, hate this guy.
And then there's like the human element of this,
'cause I've now seen him on Twitter.
I didn't know at first that he wasn't just on GitHub.
And it's like, I don't know, he's got,
I'm sure he's got like a family and he's whatever he's human.
But like, it doesn't matter if you're a human,
we're all humans.
So like, don't be a dick online, I don't know.
Don't be such a whatever he's being.
Like, if he's upset or like you're patronizing me
or whatever and he's saying stuff on Twitter,
like everyone disagrees with you.
So maybe just like bow down?
- That's what's weird.
It was like, it wasn't a debate.
It was like a 100% person.
- 100% person.
- Is there one person, that's what I'd love to know.
If anyone listening to this knows a person
who sides with this individual and says, yes,
this stuff is important because I'm on TC39 or whatever,
I would love to hear it.
Because I haven't seen a single person come out and defend.
And I'd love to know, is this person literally on an island?
And then why, why be so staunch?
- I have like a bigger thought
about this backwards compatibility thing.
I have like a very strong thought on this.
I think that a lot of engineers obsess over backwards compatibility
and they hold it to like as like some kind of trying.
And it holds like a ton of things back
and you're actually a bad engineer
if you just like obsessively focus on it.
It's like one of those things where it's technically correct, right?
Everyone can agree it's good to be backwards compatible.
It's easy to tell whether you're being backwards compatible or not.
And because it's just obvious in those ways,
people just 100% optimize for it.
It's like any 100% test coverage or something.
And it's seen as this like thing that you can't
violate or you're bad if you break it.
But there's so much like it's like everything else in engineering.
It's about judgment being infinitely backwards compatible is horrible.
And we have so many problems in the ecosystem because
there's just this engineering bias towards backwards compatibility.
Like, yeah, it sucks when things break,
but the world changes and there's new ideas.
There's new things that can exist.
And if you're just constantly focused on backwards compatibility,
what you end up creating are these like,
you think that, oh, if we're backwards compatible forever,
that means like we're bringing people along forever.
But what actually happens is you have some kind of thing that's working
and the world changes and it needs to make this jump.
It never makes that jump.
So you end up just trapping all these people in this little bubble
that can never make the jump to the next thing.
And then you end up someone else that ends up having to create a new thing
instead of just like iterating on the old thing
because the old things aren't evolving enough.
And they get stuck in this like local, local maxima.
So yeah, you see this with a CJS ESM thing.
Everyone is like, what's he commented on?
Have you seen, I don't know if you've seen his comments on that?
No, what did he say?
Somebody dug up some of his comments about it should like ESM was a mistake
and it should everything just be CJS.
That's the only way you can be safe and like accepting of all users.
ESM's hostile.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So ignoring whether or not ESM should have existed period,
let's say, let's just take that for granted.
Like there's this new thing that ESM makes sense as a concept.
People keep shipping ESM plus CJS packages.
And that like mode leads to so many, so many, so many issues
because it's very hard to ship both them together correctly.
And tools don't handle them well and there's like confusion.
And people keep just trying to ship both over and over.
And so that just being like, we're not supporting CJS anymore.
We're just moving forward to ESM.
It's going to be a one or two painful years.
But it's better than like 10 years of being stuck on both.
And some packages have done that switch to be fair.
Well, yeah, didn't, what's his name?
Syndrome or the really famous other big things?
Didn't he do that?
Didn't he say, yeah, I thought did he go ESM only?
I think so.
I think he made some shift and a lot of people were upset.
But what I don't get is there's older versions of the library.
You can still use it.
Right.
You can just still use it.
Yeah, I don't get it.
I don't get that.
It's just a practical, it's the lack of touch with reality.
Because I think Rich here is somebody on the salt side of that PR discussion mentioned
that they released this breaking change where they didn't support all Node-Vint versions
like a year ago.
And no one has raised a single issue saying, yes, exactly, yeah.
Like a year and nobody has an issue.
And like, it's practically speaking, you can stand on your correctness.
Like everything has to be more correct or that's the most important thing.
And I think that's the way this person, I haven't said the name.
I just don't want to, I don't know.
I think everyone can figure out who this person is.
But they sort of tried to frame the conversation in the PR as like, yeah,
I get that you're frustrated.
It's frustrating when someone values something and somebody values another.
But it's not about who values what?
Because there's like objective, you're not making good judgment.
You can say I value correctness more than you and you value whatever more than me.
But it's not that.
It's you just don't have good judgment.
And that's okay.
But you shouldn't be in charge of 400 NPM packages.
If you have that bad judgment.
And as an ecosystem, I'm not saying he should do something.
I'm just saying as a community, why do we keep handling this person more packages to maintain?
And also, why do we keep using these packages?
Why can't we just, I don't understand the simple question like,
why have we not moved off of some of these dependencies?
And just fork them and maintain.
I know that's like work.
Somebody has to maintain them.
Yeah.
Is that the problem?
Is that all it blows down to?
It's like nobody's stepped up to just do the work.
Yeah, it's tedious boring work.
Like, forking it and updating everything and then, you know, just setting up.
See, yeah, it's all of that just stupid.
Yeah.
Trivio, like, logistical work.
It's better than I not have to do that.
And like the mode, yeah, it's just weird.
Like, I don't, I just, all this is so alien to me.
Why would I want to maintain 400 packages?
Like, not new stuff that's being worked on.
Just 400 packages that, like, barely irrelevant.
And nobody should be using anymore.
Yeah, that, that's when I start to, like, guess.
I don't say it publicly, but that's when I start to guess it motives.
Like, I know the incentives are there for the, the tide lift thing.
But when, when I learn that there's 400 packages under this person's direct maintainer ship,
that's when I start assuming some things about you.
I'm not going to say it here because it's just, I don't know.
I don't need to, like, attack some of these characters.
But like, there's a certain type of personality that would be like,
I want to have as much control or as much whatever responsibility or ownership or
surface area in this ecosystem as possible.
I don't think that's just like, I don't know how to frame that in like a, uh, charitable light,
I guess is how I would say it.
Yeah, I used to go deeper into it.
Like, I did have some other thoughts on something because, uh, again,
like we're just judging based off of random messages that this person has posted.
So we could be reading into this too much.
Yeah. And I, I've only known to this person for like three days.
So what do I know?
Like, I, I'm sure I'm oversimplifying everything here.
And I don't have all the back history.
This person sits on the TC 39 committee or whatever.
He chaired it.
I don't know stuff that's way over my head that I don't understand how browsers work
or JavaScript.
Oh, you know what?
Let's talk about TC 39.
And there, there are another example of what I'm just so tired of.
Like it's just the most bureaucratic.
It sounds like I get, again, these things are framed as just objectively good.
Oh, it's like an open committee with like everyone collaborating.
And like we're all deciding on a future.
It sounds good, but what it is the end of the day is it's a committee that lacks any vision.
If you look at certain proposals, I've just been stuck forever for the dumbest reasons.
Like a great example is the, the pipe operator in JavaScript.
Clearly a lot of people want it.
I'm someone that extremely wants the pipe operator.
I think there's, um, there's, there's a lot of value in it.
There's just been endless discussion and debate over how exactly to implement it.
When other languages have it in every flavor that you can look at and they're all fine.
Just pick one, but it's just like infinite because it, oh, it's a type of thing where
there's like room for discussion.
So then infinite discussion happens.
Yeah.
Nobody like makes a call.
Fills the container like a liquid.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So it's like, yeah, you can't make the wrong decision because all these things are permanent,
but you also need to have some kind of judgment.
Like literally any one of these proposals would have been fine.
I'm okay with literally any, any one of them.
And other languages, there's a language that's successful with each, each implementation.
So you just, you literally can't go completely wrong.
Yeah.
The only thing wrong is just like waffling and making it drag out forever.
Like that's the only way you can screw it up.
It's been literal years for now.
Yes.
I think that, yeah.
Well, I was just going to say, what is an example?
You mentioned other languages.
What's an example of an ecosystem that gets this right?
And how can the JavaScript community learn from that?
And what would it take?
Is it even possible?
Is it like voting for politicians?
It just feels like pointless.
It's never going to change.
Other languages have BDFLs.
That's really what it comes down to.
Big.
I don't know.
What is BDFL?
I was going to try and guess.
Oh, benevolent dictator for life.
Oh, yeah.
Like you take things like Python or Elixir or nice.
And that works out.
That's the best approach.
It's to have a individual.
It's the best approach when you're fortunate enough
to have a talented individual.
That's like rare.
Yeah.
And then it's the worst approach when they're not.
When that person moves on and we're like the most takes over.
Yeah.
It's just like it's like a lottery.
Like some things in the world were lucky enough
that that lined up.
So is there any hope for JavaScript to like move
towards something more like that?
Or just less committee, death by committee stuff?
No, there isn't.
But the only thing I'm really complaining about here
is the attitude around this stuff.
We don't have a BDFL.
We have a committee.
No one should be proud that we have a committee.
We're settling for a committee
because we don't have a BDFL.
But there's so much like pride over all this bureaucratic stuff
where it's like nobody wants that actually.
Yeah, there's like an era of like respect.
You must bestow upon the TC 39.
Like I don't know what that is and I don't care.
Like I'm sorry.
This just seems, I feel like that's not going to make it
through the generations.
Like I just feel like there's a generation coming up
even more detached than I am.
That's just going to be like, who cares?
And how do they get around it?
I don't know how they get around it
because they like browsers and stuff.
Like the TC 39 has a lot of power, right?
In the sense that this influences browser road maps,
I guess, like the teams on these browsers.
And here's like a, okay, we have an even worse situation.
We actually have a we have a committee
sacked on top of a committee because there's also
there's winter CG group, which is not.
So TC 39 is working on JavaScript.
And primarily they're concerned about the browser.
And winter CG is all the server run times
that are banding together.
So Cloudflare workers, bun is on there.
I think Dino's on there.
There's a bunch of them being like,
and their idea is we want to use web APIs for everything.
Even though we're on the server,
we want to like take web APIs that TC 39 puts out
and like make sure that they work on the server.
And we want to all be compatible with each other
so that it's not confusing for.
You didn't say node, was that intentional?
Is node part of winter CG?
I don't know if node is part of winter CG.
They might be, I just don't know.
And what sucks about this is
they've arbitrarily attached themselves
to another committee.
TC 39 does not care about winter CG at all.
They don't care about JavaScript as a server.
So they come up with APIs that are just stupid.
Like all the crypto,
all the new crypto APIs are async for some reason.
And that makes sense in the browser
where like really everything is async
because you want nothing to block the UI thread.
Yeah.
This causes so much stupid stuff on the back end,
the fact that it's async.
Like everything from performance is just practical issues.
It like pollutes your whole code base
where everything has to be async,
even things that like crypto on the back end
does not need to be async.
But winter CG is their guiding philosophy is
web APIs everywhere.
So developers can just learn one thing
and use it everywhere,
which I get, but it's stupid.
It's just not going to work.
You're just not like practically
you just build APIs that are good for browser
and to the server.
And on top of that,
TC 39 does not care about you.
They don't care about your needs at all.
So yeah, it's always committees.
It sucks.
And I guess somebody in chat called out Jared Sumner with Bun.
They've definitely been like some hope.
I mean, just like his approach is like
f at all, like doing my own thing.
But I'm going to make it work everywhere.
He's got it's like the very free market approach.
I feel like Jared has taken.
It's like, I'm going to make something so good
that it makes an impact.
Is that accurate?
Did I sum that up?
Yeah.
And he's part of TC 39.
And he's always like, yeah, I don't like we're part of it.
But like, you know, yeah.
The renegades are a bunch.
They're not really betting their future on that.
And they do like they like try crazy things.
And sometimes some of those ideas are bad.
And maybe cause pain across the industry, but.
But it feels very anti bureaucratic.
He feels like the opposite of like bureaucracy.
Yeah.
He like just want his his thing is
things should be simple.
Things should be easy.
Everything you can like rationalize your way out of that
through all this like smart ways of thinking on paper.
Yeah.
But if it results of things being stupid for the end user,
like it doesn't matter how smart it sounds.
Like it would just you did a bad job.
Yeah.
I think that a good guiding principle to have
is you want your stuff not to surprise people.
Like you don't want any behavior that's surprising.
Like when someone tries to use something,
it should behave in a certain way.
Even if their expectations are technically wrong,
if the expectations are generally applied generally,
a lot of people have the expectation.
You should just make it work.
It doesn't matter that their expectations are off.
And it's very hard as an engineer.
Like it's hard to find engineers that think that way,
especially engineers working on like systems level stuff.
Like fun.
So I'm hopeful for that because they're at least shaking things up
and they're like this counterforce.
Yeah.
Can we bring up the thing you've talked about doing for years?
And I know you're not going to be,
I'm not trying to put the pressure on you to be like the chosen one
and be the BDFL JavaScript.
But you have talked about this idea of like stamping,
like having a body that like stamps, not a body.
That sounds way too bureaucratic.
Just having like a company or an official stamp on packages
that are good with a capital G and all the bad ones
cannot have that stamp.
And it would just help the ecosystem say,
oh, this package, I'm comparing two packages.
One of them has the stamp from smart people who looked at it
and understand that it's packaged correctly.
It doesn't do stupid stuff like the AWS SDKs.
And like it's going to generally be a better choice
than the non-stamped one.
Like the seal of approval, the DAX seal of approval
for lack of a better word.
Do you still consider doing this?
Because I would love it.
It sounds so nice.
Yeah, yeah.
I think this is something that I still want to do.
And what's funny about this is it'll upset people
because someone is like claiming something.
And I'll get a bunch of technical
probably arguments about these things.
But the fun part is it's not about technical details.
It's actually all about taste.
Yeah, it's taste.
You have good taste.
That's all it is.
So I already do this.
I already come to you when it's like,
I need a package for this.
What's the best?
What's the right one?
Sometimes I don't have to come to you.
I just look at your repos.
It's like, oh, he uses--
what's the one for time that you use?
Luxon.
So I just assume that's the best one.
If DAX uses it, it's probably the best one.
I already do that because I knew you have good taste.
You're good at figuring this stuff out.
You're a taste maker.
You saw Drizzle very early.
You know when something is like,
this team knows what they're doing.
And you can kind of look at a repo.
And I don't know what you're looking at.
But you can figure out really quick,
looking at their package JSON and all the other stuff
that they either get it or don't.
And that's good taste.
And that's such a good point.
So few people have good taste.
So we need someone, you, with good taste
to do this thing for us as a community.
Yeah, I would definitely like to do that.
I think I see a pathway to start doing more of that stuff,
especially with how the ecosystems evolve.
I think, yeah, it's funny because the taste thing is--
it's interesting because it sticks out
when we're on to another team that fits.
It's like the thing I was describing about the bun team,
they're so user focused and certain teams are that way.
There's a lot of projects where when you start
talking to the maintainers and you're like,
hey, I ran to this issue, they start to give you--
they start to talk about like some grand theory,
like grand unified theory about why it is that way.
Yeah.
Versus being embarrassed.
Nice.
And there are certain teams that are just always embarrassed.
And they're like, we got to figure that out.
And that's like 90% of it.
The packages speak for themselves when they operate that way.
Yeah.
OK.
Well, I'm going to keep checking them with you.
Maybe next year.
We'll just-- every year or so, we'll
see how the DAX bandwidth is looking.
You know what?
Another example of this is Rametta.
I don't know if you saw that one.
You said everywhere.
I use it everywhere now, too, because I saw you use it everywhere.
It's like a low dash replacement, right?
It only needs to exist because the stupid pipe operator
that is not getting passed.
Is that TC39?
Is that-- where does that fit into the bureaucracy picture?
It's been slowly, slowly, slowly,
inching forward in TC39.
And yeah, there's just been years of pain
because we don't have that.
And it leads to so many cascading issues.
I talked about this the other day where in JavaScript,
we just keep attaching methods to prototypes.
We're like, oh, let's add like a group by to array.
Oh, let's add like a sort by to array.
Let's add a min. Let's add a max.
And then it's all of a sudden we're like, oh, shit.
We forgot to add it to iterators.
OK, we need a new proposal.
Let's add group by iterators.
Let's sort by.
Oh, no, objects are iteratable, too.
How do we-- it's just like we're like slowly just adding more and more.
It's like-- it's like n things, right?
Like you add one thing if the add n places.
And it's just like this infinite slog.
And each time you go to the whole bureaucratic loop,
elixir works completely differently in this specific zone
because if a pipe operator, your functions
are independent of the thing that they operate on.
So if you implement a sort function, that's standalone.
You can pipe an object into it.
You can pipe an array into it.
You can pipe an iterator into it.
Anything that's iteratable, this sort function can do.
So you just have this nice standalone collection
of functions that can operate on these things.
And it works for everything.
It's because of the pipe operator.
It's a lot more natural to do it there.
So sort of that, I use remetta.
Everyone else is low dash, like low dash, low dash, low dash,
blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, yeah.
Why do I use remetta?
Why do you--
But two reasons.
First, low dash's ESM story was a mess for a very long time.
It did not tree shake properly.
They have a separate low dash dash ESM package now.
But like they're again straddling that weird,
we're trying to do both things.
Second, remetta is lazy for all operations.
But if you have like a chain of things where it's like,
I have an array, filter map take three.
If you do that, do that stuff with things.
Just iterate one by one until it meets your final condition.
It won't go through the whole array multiple times.
It's just little details like that.
I don't think you spend a lot of time being like,
I'm going to spend a week looking for a good utility library like this.
You're just not going to arrive at that level of decision.
So most people just don't have the time to do that,
which is why this kind of stamp of approval thing can help.
Yeah, it would be great.
I'm just picturing a little badge on the repo where it's like,
it got a little seal and you just know it's a good option.
It would help me save me a ton of time.
I mean, I can already just look at your repos.
I should at least maintain a list of good packages.
Just just have a page, just literally a web,
like a page on your website.
That's like, here's a list of good packages.
Yes, just do that.
And then I can just go to that page every time if you keep it up to date.
We could even put, we could push pull requests to it as a community.
People could be like, look, backscapes using this.
Yeah, I can reject them.
Yeah, and you could reject them.
That's funny.
Did you see the state of JavaScript stuff?
A little.
I don't keep up to it enough.
Like every year it kind of comes ago.
It's like advent of code.
I always think like I'm going to get into it this year
and I'm going to really read it and do the survey or whatever,
but it's just never a priority at the moment.
I don't know.
Tell me what came out of it.
What were the big takeaways?
I have a little quote in there actually.
Oh, yeah.
It's meant to submit.
I just plug Replicash as if I don't do that enough.
You famous.
Oh, did you also plug Linear or just Replicash?
No, just Replicash.
Because it helps you build things like Linear.
Oh, yeah, right.
Who did the state of JS Chancellor reach out to you?
Like, how did you get a quote in there?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They're just like, hey, DAX.
There's like several quotes on every page
just asking people like, what's your favorite package this year or something?
I have some interesting things.
Can you DM me this?
I want to see it or I can just go looking forward, I guess, but.
Native JS.
I think the main.
It's fine.
Every time.
So when this happens, like all the framework authors post,
like a little snippet being like, we're doing so great.
Because they find like, there's always something in there that is good.
There's some positive angle.
Yeah.
Yeah, but overall to me.
Unless you're Gatsby.
Sorry.
There's no positive.
Overall, it felt very negative.
Like zoomed in like there were certain things.
Like I think Ashrow had some pretty positive results, but not like crazy positive, right?
And solid like pretty much stayed where it was.
Overall, it seems pretty negative.
Like everyone seems like really down on the ecosystem.
A lot of things people are interested in before and are longer interested in.
Really?
Potentions not looking good.
Like when frameworks are young, they just tend to do well every year.
Just because they're like growing.
Some of them already seem like they're past that just within one or two years.
React, like the interest in React is so far down.
There's definitely a moment that started a couple of years ago,
where we're like, okay, a bunch of disruption and innovation is going to happen.
Obviously those are chaotic periods.
Yeah.
The sentiment I get is everyone's sick of how long it's taking.
And they just want to like go back to like getting stuff done with something stable and stuff.
Not just.
Does the state of JS kind of reflect just like more react, sticking with react
Homerism or something or no?
Not exactly because React is also part of all this change, right?
Like with how much next is change and how.
Oh, yeah.
The new React stuff.
Yeah, sure.
Everything is just in this like half state.
Like app router is still like so broken and so many things don't work.
And then people are like now even questioning like, is this all worth it?
You know, like we're promises will be worth it.
You only have a certain amount of time to deliver on that promise, right?
Like people can only stay in limbo for so long.
So that's the feeling I've gotten and other frameworks, like.
So I'll start has taken a very long time and it's like just.
Just finally released and it's still very early.
So yeah.
Yeah, I think everyone's taking everything away long and expected.
Well, now I actually want to read the report.
I want to see, I want to see if this is like a jaded DAX point of view.
And like you're just seeing everything a certain way.
Or if if I see the same thing, if it feels that way reading it.
It wasn't just in the report.
So I kind of felt that way from the report and I talked to Fred
and Ryan Carnaudio about it.
And everyone just feels like these aren't like good numbers.
Yeah, people aren't like super enthused this year.
Like they were in years past.
Yeah.
There's some hope dwindling and optimism fading.
Yeah, interesting.
And it's funny because there are it's almost like there's a industry wide mood.
And yeah, there's moods where people are open to certain things.
There's moods where people are like more closed off.
And you have to like deliver your thing to line up with that.
And sometimes you just get unlucky.
It's interesting.
Like when you say all this, and it makes you think of some of the Twitter sentiment
shifting towards the DHH and rails kind of like rails is back.
Rails was never gone.
Why'd you all get so complicated?
That's kind of been the mood on Twitter, which I just largely ignore as like,
it comes and goes, the mood does.
But if it's something like this, if it's showing up in the state of JS,
I feel like that's a little more significant.
If like somehow this like we're tired of all the quote unquote innovation and complexity,
if that's kind of like seeping into this broader, I would assume this survey kind of
hits a larger swath than just the Twitter crowd, right?
Or is it largely still?
Yeah, no, I'm sure it hits a large.
I mean, I think there was maybe one question there that was like,
how did you end up on the survey?
Oh, yeah.
And a large percentage of like the it was like number two or something.
Oh, just.
It might still be biased, just like in the small bubble.
But yeah, I mean, if you just assume that it's a larger swath,
I do think it is a.
Yeah, do you feel like that's kind of lines up with the Twitter sentiment
of like a shift toward going back to old times and simpler times?
And that all sounds familiar.
Yeah.
And like I think rotating back to Rails is like a little bit extreme,
but just take like your own experience.
Remember pages?
Oh, yeah.
Router.
The pages.
Yeah, sure.
Sure.
Like you built a lot of stuff on there.
I don't think you ever really had a bad time.
No, yeah.
Even today, you can still use it.
And it's probably one of the better ways to build something like that.
Yeah.
In JavaScript.
I've actually had real experiences with the app router now that I can speak
intelligibly about like the pains.
Yeah.
And like the promise, I mean, I see the pitch.
Like I see like it'd be nice if, but there's just implementation of it.
And the reality of it today is pretty painful,
which I don't want to go into all of it right now.
Do you see Web Dev Cody's tweet about the composition tweet?
No.
You know how like RSCs are all about composition and reacts?
Like we're always about composition.
So he tweeted like, you don't understand next and react.
They're all about composition.
Oh, wait, you can't enforce a reaction.
Oh, wait, you can't explain anything.
Oh, wait.
So he's got like all of these just things where like it's.
Yeah.
If you look at the one narrow lens, it looks composable, but in practice,
it like is the opposite in a lot of ways.
Yeah.
So I think this is reflective of the sentiment.
I think the next show has pages.
They got to a pretty good place earlier than everyone else.
And that kind of remix came to that set up later.
Yeah.
And I think that was like peak.
That was like the peak of something.
And ever since then, it's just been downhill.
It's been two years of, there's a weird, weird zone.
And yeah, I think people are tired of it.
Yeah, interesting.
I'm definitely tired of something.
I'm tired of something.
It's like a, I think the, like the local first stuff,
super interesting, the way you build like productivity apps.
I'm finding myself like wanting to build something that would use that paradigm,
but I just end up building all these things where it doesn't make sense.
Like stat news, it doesn't make sense for us.
And I just wish there was such a clear picture.
I feel like it's such a clear picture in 2024.
How to build an app like that way?
Yeah.
With replicas or something else.
It just feels so like, well, like defined.
You don't have a million options.
It's like, there's a way to do it.
Do it.
And I feel like on the other side with sites or more like page driven apps or websites,
whatever, like the other side like stat news where it's like Wikipedia.
It feels so up in the air.
Like you should be server generating this part.
You should be not server generating this part.
Just, I don't know.
It's just, it's a lot.
It's funny.
Someone in the chat was like, I'm surprised that I didn't mention zero.
I was just about to mention zero.
Oh yeah, replicas zero.
Yeah.
Man, I am so excited for this.
It's going to like, this stack that we're going to put together with zero
is going to look so simple and easy compared to whatever the hell is going on in the other side
of the world.
Yeah.
And it's going to be able to do almost all the same things.
Things are going to be server rendered.
And then once they're on the client, everything's going to take over.
Is this the, is there a world where that's just for everything?
Where we don't have to make a decision?
And it's like, that works for everything.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's my goal.
It's, it's so crazy.
Like you can basically the idea with zero, like specifically with React is,
you stop passing stuff around in props, like every, um, component just writes a query that it needs.
So if you have like, like a component that renders a user,
you don't like passing the whole user object as a prop.
You just write like a query, like you pass in the ID and you just write a level zero query.
Yeah.
And it doesn't matter because it's all local.
So it's just going to fetch it.
Yeah, we instantly and every component is super self contained.
This was the promise of the RSC stuff, right?
Right.
Exactly. But you need a really good data layer to actually deliver on a promise of RSCs
because your data layer probably can't handle like these granular queries.
Yeah.
Replication can.
Yep.
When it's being rendered on a server, those queries just hit your database,
but they get rolled up.
They get hoisted properly into like a, into like a batch efficient.
So everything gets server rendered.
You just define your data right next to where you use it.
And then it's all local first after like that's, that's freaking crazy.
Like it's going to be, it's going to be so good.
That's the dream. When, when is this available? Is it available now?
Can we start using it?
When is the DAX repo example going to be out there?
Probably in the fall.
Okay.
So you'll have something out there that, what are you going to, are you going to do it with
radiant or what are you going to do?
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah.
So, so we're working on radiant in a way where we're assuming zero.
We'll be ready.
Yeah.
But there's some little trade-offs with it that I didn't like making,
but whatever, it's worth it for this bigger thing.
But yeah, like I'm really excited about that.
So the guy that makes a Tamagui, I don't know if you've seen that library.
But he's working on like a meta framework, basically with zero at the core of it.
And it's not only going to be for web.
It's going to work across web, react native and everything.
So you're going to get like server rendered local first web app.
Also, all that stuff will work in react native.
Like it's like the ultimate thing to do everything.
It sounds amazing and ambitious.
Yeah.
That sounds big, but awesome.
I mean, I'm very excited.
Tamagui was successful.
I mean, like, that was a big project.
Yeah.
It's clearly this guy knows how to ship stuff.
And he worked that versatile.
And he's like, been very, he like left in a pretty salty way.
But he's been like, not into everything he's been doing.
Oh, really?
Interesting.
So that makes you like him a lot.
Of course.
Because he--
I have to pee really bad.
So this is going to be a super abrupt ending.
There's no way to like, trail this off.
I just have to pee.
And it's been an hour.
So I feel like we should end the podcast.
Is that too abrupt for you, Dax?
Are you OK with this arrangement?
No, I want you to pee your bands.
OK, yeah.
That sounds great.
It's been-- it's been good.
[LAUGHTER]
All right.
See you, Dax.
See you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]